revamp vp formats (#500)
openid/OpenID4VP: openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.md

This specification defines new metadata parameters according to [@!RFC8414].

> * `vp_formats_supported`: REQUIRED. An object defining the formats and proof types of Verifiable Presentations and Verifiable Credentials that a Wallet supports. For specific values that can be used, see (#format_specific_parameters).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `vp_formats_supported`: REQUIRED. An object containing a list of name/value pairs, where the name is a Credential Format Identifier and the value defines format-specific parameters that a Wallet supports. For specific values that can be used, see (#format_specific_parameters).
```

Author: I wanted to make the sections the same, do you propose i apply this to both `vp_formats` and `vp_formats_supported`?

> * `vp_formats_supported`: REQUIRED. An object defining the formats and proof types of Verifiable Presentations and Verifiable Credentials that a Wallet supports. For specific values that can be used, see (#format_specific_parameters).

Reviewer: Why is the Wallet metadata called  `vp_formats_supported` and Verifier metadata just `vp_formats`?

Author: I'm not sure, it was already like this. Do you propose we make them the same? Should it both be `vp_formats_supported` (since i removed the `supported` from the properties (e.g. `alg_values_supported` became `alg_values`

Reviewer: I don't mind too much what the name is, but I think it should be the same for wallet and verifier, because it has the same values, right? In OpenID4VCI many issuer metadata claim names have `_supported` keys.

Reviewer 2: @paulbastian this is the naming convention we inherited from OIDC... @selfissued

<{{examples/credentials/jwt_vc.json}}

#### Metadata

> The `vp_formats` parameter of the Verifier metadata or the `vp_formats_supported` parameter of the Wallet metadata MUST have the key `jwt_vp_json` or `jwt_vc_json`, and the value MUST be an object consisting of the following name/value pair:

Reviewer: should we just reference the Credential Format Identifier here? (and in the other sections)

The Credential format identifiers are `ldp_vc` to request a W3C Verifiable Credential and `ldp_vp` to request a W3C Verifiable Presentation.

> Cipher suites should use signature suites names defined in [Linked Data Cryptographic Suite Registry](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/ld-cryptosuite-registry/).

Author: I removed this line as the registy is very outdated. I think it does more harm pointing to this than it does good.

Author: Found a new registry containing a list of securing mechanism specifications, so updated it to:

> Cipher suites should use Data Integrity compatible securing mechanisms defined in [Verifiable Credential Extensions](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-extensions/#securing-mechanisms).

Some document types support some transaction data ((#transaction_data)) to be protected using mdoc authentication, as part of the `DeviceSigned` data structure [@ISO.18013-5]. In those cases, the specifications of these document types include which transaction data types are supported, and the issuer includes the relevant data elements in the `KeyAuthorizations`. If a Wallet receives a request with a `transaction_data` type whose data element is unauthorized, the Wallet MUST reject the request due to an unsupported transaction data type.

### Metadata

The `vp_formats` parameter of the Verifier metadata or the `vp_formats_supported` parameter of the Wallet metadata MUST have the key `mso_mdoc`, and the value MUST be an object consisting of the following name/value pairs:

* `issuer_signed_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms supported for an `IssuerSigned` CBOR structure of an mdoc. If present, the `alg` COSE header (as defined in [@!RFC8152]) of the `IssuerSigned` structure of the presented mdoc MUST match one of the array values.

> * `issuer_signed_crv_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic curves supported with one of the algorithms listed in `issuer_signed_alg_values` for an `IssuerSigned` CBOR structure of an mdoc. Note that `issuer_signed_crv_values` MAY be used if one of the algorithms in `issuer_signed_alg_values` supports multiple curves.

Reviewer: I have the feeling we don't do ourselves a favor with fully-specfied algorithms being almost released, which seems more efficient than this

Author: The same suggestion was made on https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/460. Would you want to already reference that here? Or leave mdoc formats undefined for now?  I agree it's not the most efficient.

Reviewer: yes, I proposed this to @davidz25 and he applied this to Google's secure area interface, so I would do the same here. It makes algorithm negotiation way easier to compare single values.

Reviewer 3: If we do decide to use the fully specified algorithm specification, we need to be clear in how the conversion for mdocs that do not use these algorithms. At least the text "If present, the `alg` COSE header (as defined in [@!RFC8152]) of the `IssuerSigned` structure of the presented mdoc MUST match one of the array values." would need to be changed.

Author: I updated it to require fully-specified algorithm identifers, and noted that if fully-specified algorithms are not used, the derived fully-specified algorithm based on the alg and crv must match, please let me know if you think the text makes sense

### Transaction Data

It is RECOMMENDED that each transaction data type defines a data element (`NameSpace`, `DataElementIdentifier`, `DataElementValue`) to be used to return the processed transaction data. Additionally it is RECOMMENDED that it specifies the processing rules, potentially including any hash function to be applied, and the expected resulting structure.

Some document types support some transaction data ((#transaction_data)) to be protected using mdoc authentication, as part of the `DeviceSigned` data structure [@ISO.18013-5]. In those cases, the specifications of these document types include which transaction data types are supported, and the issuer includes the relevant data elements in the `KeyAuthorizations`. If a Wallet receives a request with a `transaction_data` type whose data element is unauthorized, the Wallet MUST reject the request due to an unsupported transaction data type.

### Metadata

> The `vp_formats_supported` parameter of the Verifier metadata or Wallet metadata MUST have the Credential Format Identifier as a key, and the value MUST be an object consisting of the following name/value pairs:

Author: > If you agree I can propose some text for this.

Yes that would be appreciated! 

> What is the reason for having a separate device_signed field

I tried to stay consistent with the appraoch for SD-JWT where there is a separate `sd-jwt_alg_values` and `kb-jwt_alg_values`. I'm okay with merging them if that makes more sense

> * `issuer_signed_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing fully-specified identifiers of cryptographic algorithms (as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-jose-fully-specified-algorithms]) supported for an `IssuerSigned` CBOR structure of an mdoc. If present, the `alg` COSE header (as defined in [@!RFC8152]) of the `IssuerSigned` structure of the presented mdoc MUST match one of the array values. If the `IssuerSigned` structure is not signed with a fully-specified cryptographic algorithm identifier (commonly known as a polymoprhic cryptographic algorithm identifier), the fully-specified algorithm derived from the combination of the `alg` value from the COSE header and the `crv` parameter from the signing key MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `issuer_signed_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing cryptographic algorithms. If the `IssuerSigned` structure is signed with a fully-specified cryptographic algorithm identifier defined in [@!I-D.ietf-jose-fully-specified-algorithms], the `alg` COSE header (as defined in [@!RFC8152]) of the `IssuerSigned` structure of the presented mdoc MUST match one of the array values. If the `IssuerSigned` structure is not signed with a fully-specified cryptographic algorithm identifier (commonly known as a polymoprhic cryptographic algorithm identifier), the fully-specified algorithm derived from the combination of the `alg` value from the COSE header and the `crv` parameter from the signing key MUST match one of the array values.
```

Reviewer 2: wg discussion agreed to address this in another PR

> * `device_signed_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing fully-specified identifiers of cryptographic algorithms (as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-jose-fully-specified-algorithms]) supported for an `DeviceSigned` CBOR structure of an mdoc. If present, the `alg` COSE header (as defined in [@!RFC8152]) of the `DeviceSigned` structure of the presented mdoc MUST match one of the array values. If the `DeviceSigned` structure is not signed with a fully-specified cryptographic algorithm identifier (commonly known as a polymoprhic cryptographic algorithm identifier), the fully-specified algorithm derived from the combination of the `alg` value from the COSE header and the `crv` parameter from the signing key MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer 2: mdoc device signed can be digitally signed or HMAC-ed. for HMAC-ed device signed, agreed to define identifiers in openid4vp specification

  * `transaction_data_hashes`: Array of hashes, where each hash is calculated using a hash function over the data in the strings received in the `transaction_data` request parameter. Each hash value ensures the integrity of, and maps to, the respective transaction data object. If `transaction_data_hashes_alg` was specified in the request, the hash function MUST be one of its values. If `transaction_data_hashes_alg` was not specified in the request, the hash function MUST be `sha-256`.
  * `transaction_data_hashes_alg`: REQUIRED when this parameter was present in the `transaction_data` request parameter. String representing the hash algorithm identifier used to calculate hashes in `transaction_data_hashes` response parameter.

### Metadata

The `vp_formats` parameter of the Verifier metadata or the `vp_formats_supported` parameter of the Wallet metadata MUST have the key `dc+sd-jwt`, and the value MUST be an object consisting of the following name/value pairs:

> * `sd-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms supported for an Issuer-signed JWT of an SD-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the Issuer-signed JWT of the presented SD-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer 4: Probably not related to the changes of this PR, yet I don't understand how to interpret a not provided or an empty array for `sd-jwt_alg_values`. Why is this OPTIONAL?

Does it mean, that Verifier can handle any algorithm, (something like a wildcard)?

Even more confusing (for me) is having `kb-jwt_alg_values` OPTIONAL. 
It can be interpreted as a wildcard (Verifier can tackle all signing algorithms), or even that a KB-JWT is not needed.

Author: I'm not 100% sure. I guess the format identifier being present would indicate the format is supported. And the array being present would indicate which alg values are supported.

I think not all implementations would want to list all algorithms they support. @martijnharing you also mentioned this during the WG call, any specific reason for this?

Reviewer 3: For example, if the document type that is used already has requirements for which algorithms must be supported by Readers and which ones are allowed for that particular document type, providing this extra field is effectively superfluous information.

  * `transaction_data_hashes`: Array of hashes, where each hash is calculated using a hash function over the data in the strings received in the `transaction_data` request parameter. Each hash value ensures the integrity of, and maps to, the respective transaction data object. If `transaction_data_hashes_alg` was specified in the request, the hash function MUST be one of its values. If `transaction_data_hashes_alg` was not specified in the request, the hash function MUST be `sha-256`.
  * `transaction_data_hashes_alg`: REQUIRED when this parameter was present in the `transaction_data` request parameter. String representing the hash algorithm identifier used to calculate hashes in `transaction_data_hashes` response parameter.

### Metadata

The `vp_formats_supported` parameter of the Verifier metadata or Wallet metadata MUST have the Credential Format Identifier as a key, and the value MUST be an object consisting of the following name/value pairs:

> * `sd-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms supported for an Issuer-signed JWT of an SD-JWT. If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the Issuer-signed JWT of the presented SD-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `sd-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing fully-specified identifiers of cryptographic algorithms (as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-jose-fully-specified-algorithms]) supported for an Issuer-signed JWT of an SD-JWT.
```

> * `kb-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. A JSON array containing identifiers of cryptographic algorithms supported for a Key Binding JWT (KB-JWT). If present, the `alg` JOSE header (as defined in [@!RFC7515]) of the presented KB-JWT MUST match one of the array values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `kb-jwt_alg_values`: OPTIONAL. AA JSON array containing fully-specified identifiers of cryptographic algorithms (as defined in [@!I-D.ietf-jose-fully-specified-algorithms]) supported for a Key Binding JWT (KB-JWT).```
